📖 clusterctl: initial set of documentation (#1994)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/clusterctl/configuring-clusterctl.md

# The clusterctl config file

> The clusterctl config file can be used for:

Author: +1

> # The clusterctl config file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# clusterctl Configuration File
```

The `clusterctl` config file is should be located at `$HOME/.cluster-api/clusterctl.yaml` and it can be used for:

- Customizing the list of providers and provider repositories that `clusterctl` can use
- Providing values to be used for variable substitution when installing providers or creating clusters

## Provider repositories

> The `clusterctl` command is designed to work with all the providers implementing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `clusterctl` CLI is designed to work with all the providers implementing
```

> the [clustetrctl contract](contract.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [clusterct Provider Contract](contract.md).
```

> the [clustetrctl contract](contract.md).

Author: I have fixed this as suggested by @vincepri / consistent with the new summary

> Each provider is expected to define a provider repository, that is well-known place where the release assets for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each provider is expected to define a provider repository, a well-known place where release assets are published.
```

> a provider are published. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The `clusterctl` command ships with a pre-defined list of provider repositories that includes all the providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `clusterctl` CLI ships with providers sponsored by SIG Cluster Lifecycle.
```

> sponsored by SIG-cluster-lifecycle. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The user can change this list by adding new providers or changing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can customize the list of available providers using the `clusterctl` configuration file, as shown in the following example:
```

> repository address for a pre-defined provider by editing the `clusterctl` config file as in the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
providers:
  # add a custom provider
  - name: "my-infra-provider"
    url: "https://github.com/myorg/myrepo/releases/latest/infrastructure_components.yaml"
    type: "InfrastructureProvider"
  # override a pre-defined provider
  - name: "cluster-api"
    url: "https://github.com/myorg/myforkofclusterapi/releases/latest/core_components.yaml"
    type: "CoreProvider"
```

## Variables

> `clusterctl` supports variable substitution both in the components YAML and in the cluster template YAML.

Reviewer: We should add a section above explaining in more details what we're trying to accomplish with variables. For new users "components yaml" or "cluster template yaml" are probably new concepts, and it might be a little early here to mention them
